
Crypto / Trading Terms (A-M)

Accumulation
The market phase in which smart money buys their coins.

Altcoin / Alt
Any cryptocurrency that isn’t Bitcoin.

ATH
All-time High.

Bear Market
A period where the prices are seeing a long term downtrend.

Bear Trap
The opposite of the above - designed to trap sellers instead of buyers.

Bid/ Ask
A Bid is a buy order, and an Ask is a Sell order. Think of it like an auction, where a Bid is the price somebody wants to pay for the asset, and an Ask is the price somebody wants to sell their asset for.	

Bounce 
When a coin, or the market itself, starts to go up after a down move.

Breakout 
A Breakout is a price movement that pierces the upper or lower boundaries of a trading range.

Bull Market
A market where prices are seeing a continuous uptrend, leading to new highs being created over a sustained period.

Bull Trap
When large player(s) buy aggressively, causing price to rise sharply. Traders think that this is a Breakout and they start to buy. The large player then flips bias, and starts selling large amounts into these new buyers, pushing the prices down, liquidating many overleveraged traders.

Chop / Choppy
A period where the price is moving sideways with no clear direction, usually causing traders to change their mind frequently and lose money.

Consolidation
A period where the price is ranging in a well-defined region. This is a period of indecision and generally leads to a volatile movement in either direction.

Confirmation
Traders often look for more than one signal to confirm their opinion on the price direction of a coin. Confirmation refers to a subsequent signal that validates or reinforces the traders opinion on where the coin is heading.

Correction / Pullback
Also known as a ‘pullback’, a correction is what happens when price moves in the opposite direction to the trend after making a new high or low. 

Day Trading
Taking a position in the market (buying or selling, long or short) and exiting it the same day.

Demand
An area or level with significant buying interest/ support. 

Downtrend
Opposite of uptrend, price here makes lower highs and lower lows. 

Distribution
The market phase in which smart money sells their coins.

Dump / Crash / Nuke 
Price goes down rapidly.

Exchange (Centralised / CEX)
An online marketplace which allows buying and selling of BTC and Altcoins through a centralised company who custody your assets. E.g. Coinbase, Binance.

Exchange (Decentralised / DEX)
An online marketplace hosted on a blockchain which allows buying and selling of BTC and Altcoins in a trustless manner (no middle man). You retain custody of your assets. E.g. Uniswap, Sushiswap

EV
Expected Value. A term used in probabilistic thinking when estimating potential returns of a trade.

Fade 
To take a position that is counter to the current trend of a coin. The position is established at the end of an up or down leg.

Fiat 
Currencies that have value because they are minted by a central bank. Examples include USD, GBP, EUR.

Flat / Get Flat
To close out a position and remain neutral.

FOMO- Fear Of Missing Out 
That feeling you get when the market pumps and you’re not in a long trade. Learn to ignore it.

FUD
Fear, Uncertainty and Doubt.	A term used to describe negative news articles or other information about a coin or project.	

Front Running
Taking a position in a coin based on non-public information such as an impending transaction by another person in the same or related coin.

HTF
Shorthand for High Time Frame - referring to a candlestick chart on a longer term basis (Daily, Weekly etc.)

KYC
KYC stands for "know your customer." Many jurisdictions have KYC regulations, which require verification of new customers when joining an exchange before they can buy or sell crypto.

Leverage
The extra amount of asset bought or sold, over your capital limit. 
E.g. If you want to go long $10000 worth of Bitcoin with an account balance of $1000, you would have to use leverage of 10x. Leverage opens you up to risk of liquidation on sudden price moves.

Long / Going Long / Long Trade
A buy order to open a position on perpetual futures. ‘Buy’ and ‘Long’ are often used interchangeably.
 
Liquidity
The measure of how much demand and supply (bids and asks) there is on the order books for a particular coin. A high liquidity coin has many available buyers and sellers at the same time.

Limit Order
An order will execute at a predefined price, if the market reaches that price. 

LTF
Shorthand for Low Time Frame - referring to a candlestick chart on a near term basis (5min, 30min, 1 hour etc.)
 
Liquidation
When you are stopped out of your position because the trade went in the opposite direction and your margins are not sufficient to carry the trade anymore.

Market Cap
Current supply (number of coins available) multiplied by current price of said coin.

Market Maker
A professional dealer or person with trading privileges on an exchange who has an obligation to buy when there is an excess of sell orders and to sell when there is an excess of buy orders.

Market Order
An order to buy or sell at the current best price available, executed immediately.

Margin / Initial Margin
The amount of funds required to open a leveraged trade.
E.g. If you want to open a position of $10000 with a leverage of 5X, your margin
requirement would be $2000.
2000 x 5 = $10000

Maintenance Margin
Maintenance margin is the amount of account balance (collateral value) required to avoid a margin call. If your balance falls below the maintenance margin, your positions will be liquidated. Note that Margin and Maintenance Margin are not the exact same number. Always check your specific exchange for the required % of maintenance margin.

Moon/ Mooning
When a coin ‘moons’, that means it rises sharply in value. A crypto trader could talk about how an altcoin is going "to the moon!" 


Crypto / Trading Terms (N-Z)

NY
New York.

OHLC
Open, high, low and close price on an individual candlestick.

Open Interest
Open Interest (OI) is the total number of derivatives contracts currently open for a particular asset. OI is calculated by adding the total number of longs and shorts.

Overbought 
A technical opinion that the market price has risen too steeply and too fast in relation to underlying fundamental factors.

Oversold
A technical opinion that the market price has declined too steeply and too fast in relation to underlying fundamental factors.

PA / Price Action
Analysis of price behaviour to that ignores fundamentals and focuses on the patterns of price such as market structure and trend direction.

P&L / PnL 
Profit & Loss. What a trader has made or lost in a given timeframe.

Position Trade
Taking a position in the market over a period of multiple weeks or even months. 

Pump and Dump
A "pump and dump" is a type of market manipulation where a market participant—or several—work together to inflate the price of an asset so they can sell it when its value is artificially high.

Pump / Rip 
Price goes up rapidly.

Rekt
The term "rekt" is crypto trader slang for "wrecked." Basically, it means that a trader lost substantial amounts of money.

Resistance 
An area/line where traders expect the price to stop moving up and reverse downwards.
	
Rally
An upward trend leading to an increase in price of the coin.

Range / Ranging
The difference between the high and low price of a coin during a given time period. Ranging means we are going up and down with no clear trend.

Risk
How much you will lose if your trade fails.

Reward
How much your trade will return if it wins.

RR
Risk reward, shorthand for how much profit you stand to make per unit of risk.

Scalping / Scalp Trade
Taking a position on a very short timeframe (minutes) aiming to capture a fast profit on a move.

Selling off 
When a coin is going down and the thought is that it will continue to do so.

Slippage 
The difference between estimated fill price for a trade and the amount paid due to market conditions, poor execution etc.

Swing Trade
Taking a position in the market over a period of 2-7 days.

Short / Shorting / Short Trade
A sell order to open a position on perpetual futures. ‘Sell’ and ‘Short’ are often used interchangeably.

Short Squeeze 
When those that are short have to cover (close their position) to avoid excessive losses. Leads to a seemingly unexplainable up move.

Spread
The difference between the price sellers are willing to sell at (best ask/offer) and buyers are willing to buy at (best bid). There always exists a spread on exchanges, the more liquidity an exchange has, the lower the spread will be.	
 
Supply
An area or level with significant sell orders.

Stop-Loss
An order that is triggered when price goes above/below a set price. Used to limit losses when a trade goes against expectation. 

Support
A support is an area/line where traders expect the price to hold above or bounce back up from. 

Sweep
Where price goes above or below a consolidation range and reverses back into the range. “Sweep the lows” or “sweep the highs” typically refers to a price move designed to hit the stop-losses of traders.

The Tape / Reading the Tape
Known as Time and Sales – this is the list of trades that have been executed on a particular coin. Tells you the price the trade went off at and the number of contracts/ coins that were traded.

Token
A digital token is a unit of a digital currency, such as a bitcoin. Interchangeable with ‘coin’.

Time Frame
The time spread of each candlestick in a chart. Common time periods are 5min, 30 min, 1Hour, 4 Hour, Daily etc. 

Trend 
The general direction, either upward or downward, in which prices has been moving.

Trendline
In charting, a line drawn across the bottom or top of a price chart indicating the direction or trend of price movement. If up, the trendline is called bullish; if down, it is called bearish.

Uptrend
When price is making higher highs and higher lows over a given timeframe.
 
Volatility
The percentage movement in price of an asset over a specific time period. 

Volume
Total number of coins or contracts traded in a particular time period.

Whale
The term "whale" is used to describe a trader who makes sizable bets. Market participants with the ability to execute very large transactions can potentially manipulate the market.

Zero
The final destination for 99.9% of crypto (not BTC). Don't forget to take profit when times are good :)

Non-Crypto Terms

CME
Chicago Mercantile Exchange. A global derivatives marketplace where futures and options contracts on commodities, equities, interest rates, and some cryptocurrencies are traded.

CPI
Consumer Price Index. A monthly data release that analyses and estimates inflation as it relates to consumer spending habits.

DXY
The ticker for the US Dollar Index.

ES
The ticker (stock symbol) for S&P 500 Futures, which can be bought and sold through the Chicago Mercantile Exchange.

ETF
Exchange-Traded Fund. A financial instrument that tracks an index, commodity, or asset and is traded on stock exchanges like a stock.

Federal Reserve / Fed
The board sets Fed policy regarding monetary policy (interest rates, credit, etc.), and monitors the economic health of the country.

FOMC / FOMC Meeting
Federal Open Market Committee. A group of members representing US reserve banks who meet to decide on monetary policy.

GDP
Gross Domestic Product. A measure of the total value of goods and services produced within a country’s economy over a specific period.

Inflation
The rate at which the general level of prices for goods and services in an economy is rising.

NFP
Non-Farm Payrolls. A key US employment report released monthly, measuring the change in jobs across all sectors except farming, government, and nonprofits.

NQ
The ticker (stock symbol) for Nasdaq 100 Futures, which can be bought and sold through the Chicago Mercantile Exchange.

PCE
Personal Consumption Expenditures. A key inflation metric used by the Federal Reserve to assess consumer spending and price stability trends.

PPI
Producer Price Index. A monthly data release that analyses and estimates inflation through the prices domestic producers receive for their output.

Recession
A significant decline in economic activity across multiple sectors, typically identified by two consecutive quarters of negative GDP growth.

SEC
Securities & Exchange Commission. The Federal regulatory agency established in 1934 to administer Federal securities laws.

Stagflation
A rare economic condition where high inflation, slow economic growth, and high unemployment occur simultaneously.

Tariffs
Taxes imposed on imported goods by a government, typically used to protect domestic industries or as a tool in trade policy.

TradFi
Shorthand for “traditional finance” and refers to the legacy stock, bonds, and currency markets. (Example: S&P 500)

Treasury (US Treasury)
The government department responsible for issuing debt, collecting taxes, and managing federal finances. It oversees the US Mint, IRS, and the issuance of Treasury bonds, bills, and notes.
